# [0xadrii] Bug disclosure - Improper strategy parameters adjustment due to incorrect loss accounting

## Target
https://etherscan.io/address/0x5b4F3BE554a88Bd0f8d8769B9260be865ba03B4a#code

## Vulnerability

Each Yearn Strategy performance is reported to their respective yVault via the Strategy's harvest() method. harvest() usually follows the following process:

It first reports the amount of profit, loss and debtPayment the Strategy is incurring. This allows the vault to acknowledge the Strategy's performance, and adjust some parameters (such as debt and debtRatio) considering the vault's profits and loss.
After the report, the vault adjusts the assets allocated to the reporting strategy based on the newly computed adjustments, effectively increasing or decreasing trust in the Strategy.
Some of yearn's already deployed strategies follow Grandtrax's StEth Strategy implementation (https://github.com/Grandthrax/yearn-steth-acc/blob/master/contracts/Strategy.sol). This implementation fails at computing the loss in the prepareReturn() method (method that will notify the vault on profit, loss and debtPayment the Strategy is incurring) in the specific case of the Strategy's total assets being higher than the Strategy's debt (https://github.com/Grandthrax/yearn-steth-acc/blob/master/contracts/Strategy.sol#L121), and loss being higher than the profit (https://github.com/Grandthrax/yearn-steth-acc/blob/master/contracts/Strategy.sol#L140).

The logical error is in the following code:

```solidity
else {
    _profit = 0;
    _loss = _loss - _profit;
}
```

In this specific scenario, we can see that _profit is set to zero, and then _loss is computed doing _loss = _loss - _profit. This is wrong as it won't be considering the amount of profit realized by the strategy, improperly reporting higher losses and penalizing the strategy, adjusting its debtRatio, totalLoss and totalDebt configurations.

This alteration in the trust on the strategy inevitably affects the rest of the vault's reporting process, where credit available and debt outstanding is computed considering some of the strategy's modified parameters, and allocating/deallocating funds from the strategy in a wrong way.

### Impact
Critical (logic error following Immunefi's guidelines), due to the fact that strategy loss will be accounted wrong. 
Because the contract did not hold funds, a **low** impact was finally agreed for the bug.

### Remediation
This issue can be easily fixed by changing the following block of code (lines 140 - 143 in Grandtrax's implementation to the following code:

```solidity
else{
            _loss = _loss - _profit;
            _profit = 0;
}
```

This way, profit will be properly accounted in the loss calculation, and the vault will allocate funds to the strategy in the proper way.